*This project has been created as part of the 42 curriculum by hahchtar*

## Description
**Push_swap** is an algorithmic project that requires sorting data on a stack, using a limited set of instructions, and aiming for the smallest number of operations possible. 

The project involves two stacks, **a** and **b**. 
- **Stack a** starts with a random amount of negative and/or positive numbers which cannot be duplicated. 
- **Stack b** is initially empty. 
- The goal is to sort the numbers in stack **a** in ascending order.

To achieve this, we have access to a specific set of operations:
- **Push (`pa`, `pb`)**: Move the top element from one stack to another.
- **Swap (`sa`, `sb`, `ss`)**: Swap the first two elements at the top of a stack.
- **Rotate (`ra`, `rb`, `rr`)**: Shift all elements up by one (the first becomes the last).
- **Reverse Rotate (`rra`, `rrb`, `rrr`)**: Shift all elements down by one (the last becomes the first).

The success of this project is measured by the efficiency of the sorting algorithm, with strict limits on the number of instructions allowed for sets of 100 and 500 numbers.

## Instructions

### Compilation
The project includes a `Makefile` that compiles the source files using `cc` with the flags `-Wall -Wextra -Werror`.

To compile the mandatory program:
```bash
make
```

To compile the bonus (checker) program:
```bash
make bonus
```

### Execution
To run the program, provide a list of integers as arguments. The first argument will be at the top of the stack.

```bash
./push_swap 2 1 3 6 5 8
```

If the arguments are valid, the program will output the shortest sequence of instructions to sort the stack.

### Error Handling
In case of invalid input (non-integers, numbers exceeding integer limits, or duplicates), the program will display:
```bash
Error
```
on the standard error.

### Using the Checker (Bonus)
The checker program verifies if the sequence of instructions generated by `push_swap` actually sorts the stack.
```bash
ARG="4 67 3 87 23"; ./push_swap $ARG | ./checker $ARG
```

## Benchmark
To validate the project, the following performance thresholds must be met:
- **100 numbers:** Less than 700 operations for a top score.
- **500 numbers:** No more than 5500 operations for a top score.

## Resources
-https://m4nnb3ll.medium.com/my-journey-to-find-a-good-sorting-algorithm-for-the-push-swap-42-project-4a18bc38b474

-https://medium.com/@dansylvain84/my-implementation-of-the-42-push-swap-project-2706fd8c2e9f

-https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=OaG81sDEpVk

-https://stackoverflow.com/questions/75100698/push-swap-what-is-the-most-efficient-way-to-sort-given-values-using-a-limited-s

### AI Usage

- Explaining specific concept related to linked list manipulation.

